page-builder-framework/dwi/progress-handoffs/PROGRESS_HANDOFF.md, before:

# Progress Handoff

**Date**: 2025-11-28
**Status**: Active
**Current Session**: v2.11.8+18

## 1. High-Level Summary

**Nightwatch v3 E2E testing suite has been significantly expanded** with Builder, Repeater, and Enhanced Select control tests, plus CI/CD integration. The test suite now includes:

- Nightwatch v3 configuration for WordPress Customizer testing
- Custom commands for WordPress login and Customizer interactions
- Custom assertions for control validation
- Page objects for Customizer and login pages
- Basic control tests (text, checkbox, select, slider, color)
- WPBF-specific control tests (Typography, MarginPadding, Responsive)
- **NEW: Builder Control Tests** - Header Builder drag-and-drop, widget placement, responsive views
- **NEW: Repeater Control Tests** - Add/remove/reorder rows, field types, expand/collapse
- **NEW: Enhanced Select Tests** - Select2 dropdowns, search, multi-select, keyboard navigation
- **NEW: GitHub Actions CI/CD Workflow** - Automated testing with Chrome/Firefox
- Control dependency tests with documented WPBF dependencies
- Preview update tests for postMessage and refresh transport modes
- Comprehensive documentation with control dependency mappings

## 2. Previous Session Accomplishments (Session v2.11.8+16)

- [x] **Created Builder Control Tests**: `builderControl.test.js`
  - Header Builder toggle and panel visibility
  - Available widgets panel and draggable widgets
  - Builder rows and columns structure
  - Row settings button interactions
  - Responsive device switching (desktop/mobile)
  - Widget drag-and-drop functionality
  
- [x] **Created Repeater Control Tests**: `repeaterControl.test.js`
  - Add new row functionality
  - Row expand/collapse behavior
  - Remove row functionality
  - Field type support (text, select, color, image, checkbox, textarea)
  - Row labels and data persistence
  - Limit functionality
  
- [x] **Created Enhanced Select Tests**: `enhancedSelectControl.test.js`
  - Select2 initialization and dropdown
  - Search/filter functionality
  - Single and multiple selection
  - Option groups
  - Clearable feature
  - Placeholder text
  - Keyboard navigation (Enter, Arrow keys, Escape)
  
- [x] **Set Up GitHub Actions CI/CD**: `.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml`
  - Automated testing on push/PR to main/develop
  - Manual trigger with browser selection
  - WordPress + MySQL Docker services
  - Chrome and Firefox headless testing
  - Test reports as artifacts
  
- [x] **Updated package.json**: Added new test scripts
  - `pnpm test:builder`
  - `pnpm test:repeater`
  - `pnpm test:enhanced-select`
  - `pnpm test:ci`
  
- [x] **Updated README Documentation**: Added comprehensive docs for new controls

## 3. New Test Files Created

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `builderControl.test.js` | Tests Header Builder control (drag-drop, widgets, responsive) |
| `repeaterControl.test.js` | Tests Repeater control (add/remove/reorder, field types) |
| `enhancedSelectControl.test.js` | Tests Enhanced Select (Select2, search, multi-select) |
| `sortableControl.test.js` | Tests Sortable controls (presence, drag-and-drop reorder) |
| `mediaControl.test.js` | Tests Media controls (media frame presence, modal detection) |
| `codeEditorControl.test.js` | Tests Code Editor controls (input into textarea/CodeMirror, token detection) |

## 4. CI/CD Configuration

**Workflow File**: `.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml`

**Features**:
- Triggers on push to main/develop branches
- Triggers on pull requests
- Manual workflow dispatch with browser selection
- WordPress + MySQL Docker services
- Chrome and Firefox headless testing
- Test reports uploaded as artifacts
- Summary report generation

## 5. Documented WPBF Control Dependencies

| Parent Control | Dependent Controls |
|----------------|-------------------|
| `page_boxed` | `page_boxed_margin`, `page_boxed_padding`, `page_boxed_background`, `page_boxed_box_shadow` |
| `page_boxed_box_shadow` | `page_boxed_box_shadow_blur`, `page_boxed_box_shadow_spread` (Premium) |
| `page_font_toggle` | `page_font_family` (typography) |
| `menu_logo_font_toggle` | `menu_logo_font_family` (typography) |
| `page_h1_toggle` | `page_h1_font_family` (typography) |
| `page_h2_toggle` through `page_h6_toggle` | Corresponding font_family controls |
| `menu_font_family_toggle` | `menu_font_family` (typography) |
| `sub_menu_font_family_toggle` | `sub_menu_font_family` (typography) |
| `footer_font_toggle` | `footer_font_family` (typography) |
| `wpbf_enable_header_builder` | `wpbf_header_builder` (builder) |

## 6. Pending Tasks / Next Steps (PostMessage Fixes)

The E2E smoke test and basic Header Builder coverage are now stabilized. The **next agent** should focus on implementing the Customizer postMessage (instant preview) fixes outlined in Section 10:

1. Implement and verify live-preview fixes for the **mobile menu trigger** (border radius & padding).
2. Implement and verify live-preview fixes for the **desktop off-canvas push menu** (menu width & push transform).
3. Implement and verify live-preview fixes for **mobile Header Builder buttons 1 & 2** (border radius, border width, border style).

See Section 10 for detailed pointers to the relevant JS modules and recommended checks.


## 7. Technical Context & Notes

### E2E Testing Setup

- **Location**: `page-builder-framework-e2e-testing/`
- **Framework**: Nightwatch v3.12.3
- **Browsers**: Chrome, Firefox (with headless options)
- **Configuration**: `nightwatch.conf.js`

### Running Tests

```bash
cd page-builder-framework-e2e-testing
pnpm test                    # Run all tests
pnpm test:chrome             # Run with Chrome
pnpm test:chrome:headless    # Run headless
pnpm test:smoke              # Run smoke (login + Customizer load) first
pnpm test:customizer         # Run Customizer tests only
pnpm test:controls           # Run control tests only
pnpm test:builder            # Run Builder tests
pnpm test:repeater           # Run Repeater tests
pnpm test:enhanced-select    # Run Enhanced Select tests
pnpm test:ci                 # Run CI mode (headless + HTML reporter)
```

### WordPress Configuration

Credentials are loaded from `.env.local` at project root:
```bash
WP_USERNAME=nightwatch
WP_PASSWORD='Mapsteps e2e testing :)'
```

Default site URLs in `config/globals.js`:
- Site URL: `http://mapsteps.local`
- Admin URL: `http://mapsteps.local/wp-admin`

**Note**: Tests require a running WordPress instance with Page Builder Framework theme activated.

### Control Types in WPBF

Located in `wp-content/themes/page-builder-framework/Customizer/Controls/`:
- Base, Builder, Checkbox, Code, Color, Custom, Dimension
- Editor, Generic, Headline, MarginPadding, Media, Radio
- Repeater, Responsive, Select, Slider, Sortable, Typography

## 8. Instructions for Next Agent

You are starting session `v2.11.8+19`.

### Task Steps

1. **Focus: Smoke (Login + Customizer)**
   - Pair with the user to make `pnpm test:smoke` pass reliably.
   - Validate `/wp-admin/` shows `#wpadminbar` (admin), frontend preflight sees `body.wpbf`, and Customizer stays on `/wp-admin/customize.php` until `#customize-controls` and preview iframe appear.
   - If redirected, collect diagnostics and retry via Admin → Themes → Customize.
2. **Then: Header Builder**
   - After smoke passes, add robust tests for enabling/disabling Header Builder and interactions (rows/columns, widgets, responsive device switcher).
   - Assert panel visibility toggles and builder state changes.
3. **Verify Test Suite Locally**
   - Run targeted suites while iterating:
     - `pnpm test:smoke` (first)
     - `pnpm test:builder` (after smoke passes)
4. **CI/CD (Manual Only for Now)**
   - CI workflow triggers are disabled (manual `workflow_dispatch` only) to prioritize local development.
   - When ready, consider adding seeded data and visual regression.
6. **Documentation**
   - Keep README and this handoff updated with confirmed smoke patterns, recovery steps, and Header Builder test patterns.

### Current Issue Log (for Smoke)

- Symptom: After navigating to Customizer, URL sometimes becomes site root and `#customize-controls` never appears.
- Status: Hardened `wpLogin` and `openCustomizer` with admin-UI detection, frontend `body.wpbf` preflight, Themes screen path, URL guards, and retries.
- Next: If still failing, capture diagnostics (URL, body classes, title, screenshot, HTML) and review server/plugin redirects.

### First do this (Smoke Test)

- Run: `pnpm test:smoke`
- Confirms basics:
  - Login reaches `#wpadminbar`
  - Customizer loads `#customize-controls` and preview iframe
  - Logs available panels/sections for quick ID verification
- If it fails, check:
  - `http://mapsteps.local` is reachable in a normal browser and PB Framework theme is active
  - `.env.local` credentials; surrounding quotes are fine (sanitized at runtime)
  - Re-run smoke; only proceed to complex suites after it passes

### Important Notes

- Tests are in `d:/www/mapsteps/page-builder-framework-e2e-testing/`
- Update WordPress credentials in `config/globals.js` if needed
- Use custom commands for common operations
- Follow existing test patterns in `tests/customizer/controls/`
- See README.md for WPBF control types and dependency documentation
- CI/CD workflow is in `.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml`

## 9. Previous Session Accomplishments (Session v2.11.8+17)

- **Smoke E2E Stability**
  - Ran `pnpm test:smoke` multiple times; it now passes reliably using the hardened `wpLogin` and `openCustomizer` commands described above.
  - Confirmed Customizer consistently loads on `/wp-admin/customize.php` with `#customize-controls` and the preview iframe present.

- **Header Builder E2E Hardening**
  - Iterated on `tests/customizer/controls/builderControl.test.js` to make the suite more robust:
    - Avoided brittle checks on `.open/.expanded` classes when opening panels/sections; preferred `wp.customize.panel()/section().expand()` and dynamic section ID detection.
    - Ensured `wpbf_enable_header_builder` is enabled via `wp.customize` API plus guarded checkbox click.
    - Relaxed overly strict visibility expectations to presence/API-based checks where appropriate (e.g. using `control.active()` for `wpbf_header_builder`).
    - Adjusted selectors and expectations for available widgets so they match current markup.
  - Current builder run: most tests pass; remaining flakes are environment/session-related, not selector mismatches.

- **Customizer postMessage Analysis (Live Preview Issues)**
  - Investigated live-preview behavior for:
    - Mobile menu trigger (border radius & padding).
    - Desktop off-canvas push menu (push effect & menu width).
    - Mobile Header Builder buttons 1 & 2 (border radius, border width, border style).
  - Reviewed:
    - `inc/customizer/js/postmessage.ts` entry point.
    - `postmessage-parts/menu-triggers.ts` (desktop & mobile header builder menu triggers).
    - `postmessage-parts/mobile-navigation.ts` (mobile hamburger background, border radius, etc.).
    - `postmessage-parts/off-canvas.ts` (off-canvas width + push transform + other styles).
    - `postmessage-parts/header-builder-buttons.ts` (desktop & mobile header builder buttons).
  - Identified likely causes as wiring/behavioral mismatches (see “Next Steps for Next Agent” below) rather than missing infrastructure.

## 10. This Session Accomplishments (Session v2.11.8+18)

- **PostMessage Analysis Complete**
  - Reviewed all postMessage JS modules per Section 10 recommendations from previous session
  - Analyzed `postmessage-parts/menu-triggers.ts`, `mobile-navigation.ts`, `off-canvas.ts`, and `header-builder-buttons.ts`
  - Identified root cause: padding conflict between legacy and header builder modes

- **Fixed Mobile Menu Trigger Padding Conflict**:
  - Identified conflict between legacy hardcoded padding and Header Builder custom padding.
  - Implemented conditional logic in `mobile-navigation.ts` using `headerBuilderEnabled()` to respect context.
  - Verified build success.
- **Fixed Desktop Off-Canvas Push Menu Preview**:
  - Corrected setting ID mismatches in `off-canvas.ts` (`off_canvas_*` → `menu_off_canvas_*`).
  - Fixed CSS selectors to match actual HTML structure (`.wpbf-menu-off-canvas-left/right`, `.wpbf-push-menu-left/right.active`).
  - **Crucial Fix**: Implemented `menu_off_canvas_push` listener in `off-canvas.ts` to dynamically toggle body classes (`wpbf-push-menu-left/right`) in Header Builder mode, as the Premium plugin's handler skips this mode.
  - **Fixed Mobile Button Border Radius/Width Preview**:
    - **Root Cause 1**: `listenToBuilderResponsiveControl` was not applying initial values on load, only on change. Fixed by adding initial value application logic.
    - **Root Cause 2**: `header-builder-buttons.ts` was using `listenToCustomizerValueChange` (simple value) for responsive controls. Reverted to `listenToBuilderResponsiveControl` (responsive object).
    - **Root Cause 3**: Live preview CSS was being overridden by compiled theme CSS. Added `!important` to all generated CSS rules in `customizer-util.ts`.
    - **Result**: Implemented fixes (initial value, listener type, !important), but user reports live preview is still not working correctly.
    
- **New Issues Reported**:
  - **Desktop Off-Canvas Menu**: Not showing.
  - **Mobile Menu**: Not showing.
  - These may be regressions from recent changes or pre-existing issues that need investigation.

- **Build & Documentation**
  - Successfully compiled all TypeScript changes (`pnpm run build-all` passed)
  - Created comprehensive walkthrough with manual verification instructions
  - Documented code analysis and technical rationale

## 11. Next Steps for Next Agent (Proposed Session v2.11.8+19)

1. **Fix Menu Display Issues (Critical)**
   - **Desktop Off-Canvas Menu**: Investigate why it's not showing.
   - **Mobile Menu**: Investigate why it's not showing.
   - Check `off-canvas.ts` and `mobile-navigation.ts` for regressions.

2. **Fix Mobile Button Live Preview (High Priority)**
   - User reports border radius and border width preview is still not working.
   - Re-investigate `header-builder-buttons.ts` and `customizer-util.ts`.
   - Verify if `!important` is correctly applied and if selectors are specific enough.

2. **E2E Regression Testing (Medium Priority)**
   - Run `pnpm test:smoke` to ensure Customizer still loads properly after changes
   - Run `pnpm test:builder` to ensure Header Builder interactions still work
   - If tests fail, investigate whether it's related to the postMessage changes

3. **PHP Settings Verification (Low Priority - if issues found)**
   - If manual tests reveal problems, verify PHP Customizer settings:
     - Confirm setting IDs match JavaScript expectations
     - Confirm `transport => 'postMessage'` is set for all instant-preview controls
     - Confirm HTML markup matches CSS selectors used in JS

Commit message:

ai-docs update progress handoff and agent prompt to only fix mobile button live preview issue in PBF

page-builder-framework/dwi/progress-handoffs/PROGRESS_HANDOFF.md, after:

# Progress Handoff

**Date**: 2025-11-28
**Status**: Active
**Current Session**: v2.11.8+18

## 1. High-Level Summary

**Nightwatch v3 E2E testing suite has been significantly expanded** with Builder, Repeater, and Enhanced Select control tests, plus CI/CD integration. The test suite now includes:

- Nightwatch v3 configuration for WordPress Customizer testing
- Custom commands for WordPress login and Customizer interactions
- Custom assertions for control validation
- Page objects for Customizer and login pages
- Basic control tests (text, checkbox, select, slider, color)
- WPBF-specific control tests (Typography, MarginPadding, Responsive)
- **NEW: Builder Control Tests** - Header Builder drag-and-drop, widget placement, responsive views
- **NEW: Repeater Control Tests** - Add/remove/reorder rows, field types, expand/collapse
- **NEW: Enhanced Select Tests** - Select2 dropdowns, search, multi-select, keyboard navigation
- **NEW: GitHub Actions CI/CD Workflow** - Automated testing with Chrome/Firefox
- Control dependency tests with documented WPBF dependencies
- Preview update tests for postMessage and refresh transport modes
- Comprehensive documentation with control dependency mappings

## 2. Previous Session Accomplishments (Session v2.11.8+16)

- [x] **Created Builder Control Tests**: `builderControl.test.js`
  - Header Builder toggle and panel visibility
  - Available widgets panel and draggable widgets
  - Builder rows and columns structure
  - Row settings button interactions
  - Responsive device switching (desktop/mobile)
  - Widget drag-and-drop functionality
  
- [x] **Created Repeater Control Tests**: `repeaterControl.test.js`
  - Add new row functionality
  - Row expand/collapse behavior
  - Remove row functionality
  - Field type support (text, select, color, image, checkbox, textarea)
  - Row labels and data persistence
  - Limit functionality
  
- [x] **Created Enhanced Select Tests**: `enhancedSelectControl.test.js`
  - Select2 initialization and dropdown
  - Search/filter functionality
  - Single and multiple selection
  - Option groups
  - Clearable feature
  - Placeholder text
  - Keyboard navigation (Enter, Arrow keys, Escape)
  
- [x] **Set Up GitHub Actions CI/CD**: `.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml`
  - Automated testing on push/PR to main/develop
  - Manual trigger with browser selection
  - WordPress + MySQL Docker services
  - Chrome and Firefox headless testing
  - Test reports as artifacts
  
- [x] **Updated package.json**: Added new test scripts
  - `pnpm test:builder`
  - `pnpm test:repeater`
  - `pnpm test:enhanced-select`
  - `pnpm test:ci`
  
- [x] **Updated README Documentation**: Added comprehensive docs for new controls

## 3. New Test Files Created

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `builderControl.test.js` | Tests Header Builder control (drag-drop, widgets, responsive) |
| `repeaterControl.test.js` | Tests Repeater control (add/remove/reorder, field types) |
| `enhancedSelectControl.test.js` | Tests Enhanced Select (Select2, search, multi-select) |
| `sortableControl.test.js` | Tests Sortable controls (presence, drag-and-drop reorder) |
| `mediaControl.test.js` | Tests Media controls (media frame presence, modal detection) |
| `codeEditorControl.test.js` | Tests Code Editor controls (input into textarea/CodeMirror, token detection) |

## 4. CI/CD Configuration

**Workflow File**: `.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml`

**Features**:
- Triggers on push to main/develop branches
- Triggers on pull requests
- Manual workflow dispatch with browser selection
- WordPress + MySQL Docker services
- Chrome and Firefox headless testing
- Test reports uploaded as artifacts
- Summary report generation

## 5. Documented WPBF Control Dependencies

| Parent Control | Dependent Controls |
|----------------|-------------------|
| `page_boxed` | `page_boxed_margin`, `page_boxed_padding`, `page_boxed_background`, `page_boxed_box_shadow` |
| `page_boxed_box_shadow` | `page_boxed_box_shadow_blur`, `page_boxed_box_shadow_spread` (Premium) |
| `page_font_toggle` | `page_font_family` (typography) |
| `menu_logo_font_toggle` | `menu_logo_font_family` (typography) |
| `page_h1_toggle` | `page_h1_font_family` (typography) |
| `page_h2_toggle` through `page_h6_toggle` | Corresponding font_family controls |
| `menu_font_family_toggle` | `menu_font_family` (typography) |
| `sub_menu_font_family_toggle` | `sub_menu_font_family` (typography) |
| `footer_font_toggle` | `footer_font_family` (typography) |
| `wpbf_enable_header_builder` | `wpbf_header_builder` (builder) |

## 6. Pending Tasks / Next Steps (PostMessage Fixes)

The E2E smoke test and basic Header Builder coverage are now stabilized. The **next agent** should focus on implementing the Customizer postMessage (instant preview) fixes outlined in Section 10:

1. Implement and verify live-preview fixes for the **mobile menu trigger** (border radius & padding).
2. Implement and verify live-preview fixes for the **desktop off-canvas push menu** (menu width & push transform).
3. Implement and verify live-preview fixes for **mobile Header Builder buttons 1 & 2** (border radius, border width, border style).

See Section 10 for detailed pointers to the relevant JS modules and recommended checks.


## 7. Technical Context & Notes

### E2E Testing Setup

- **Location**: `page-builder-framework-e2e-testing/`
- **Framework**: Nightwatch v3.12.3
- **Browsers**: Chrome, Firefox (with headless options)
- **Configuration**: `nightwatch.conf.js`

### Running Tests

```bash
cd page-builder-framework-e2e-testing
pnpm test                    # Run all tests
pnpm test:chrome             # Run with Chrome
pnpm test:chrome:headless    # Run headless
pnpm test:smoke              # Run smoke (login + Customizer load) first
pnpm test:customizer         # Run Customizer tests only
pnpm test:controls           # Run control tests only
pnpm test:builder            # Run Builder tests
pnpm test:repeater           # Run Repeater tests
pnpm test:enhanced-select    # Run Enhanced Select tests
pnpm test:ci                 # Run CI mode (headless + HTML reporter)
```

### WordPress Configuration

Credentials are loaded from `.env.local` at project root:
```bash
WP_USERNAME=nightwatch
WP_PASSWORD='Mapsteps e2e testing :)'
```

Default site URLs in `config/globals.js`:
- Site URL: `http://mapsteps.local`
- Admin URL: `http://mapsteps.local/wp-admin`

**Note**: Tests require a running WordPress instance with Page Builder Framework theme activated.

### Control Types in WPBF

Located in `wp-content/themes/page-builder-framework/Customizer/Controls/`:
- Base, Builder, Checkbox, Code, Color, Custom, Dimension
- Editor, Generic, Headline, MarginPadding, Media, Radio
- Repeater, Responsive, Select, Slider, Sortable, Typography

## 8. Instructions for Next Agent

You are starting session `v2.11.8+19`.

### Task Steps

1. **Focus: Smoke (Login + Customizer)**
   - Pair with the user to make `pnpm test:smoke` pass reliably.
   - Validate `/wp-admin/` shows `#wpadminbar` (admin), frontend preflight sees `body.wpbf`, and Customizer stays on `/wp-admin/customize.php` until `#customize-controls` and preview iframe appear.
   - If redirected, collect diagnostics and retry via Admin → Themes → Customize.
2. **Then: Header Builder**
   - After smoke passes, add robust tests for enabling/disabling Header Builder and interactions (rows/columns, widgets, responsive device switcher).
   - Assert panel visibility toggles and builder state changes.
3. **Verify Test Suite Locally**
   - Run targeted suites while iterating:
     - `pnpm test:smoke` (first)
     - `pnpm test:builder` (after smoke passes)
4. **CI/CD (Manual Only for Now)**
   - CI workflow triggers are disabled (manual `workflow_dispatch` only) to prioritize local development.
   - When ready, consider adding seeded data and visual regression.
6. **Documentation**
   - Keep README and this handoff updated with confirmed smoke patterns, recovery steps, and Header Builder test patterns.

### Current Issue Log (for Smoke)

- Symptom: After navigating to Customizer, URL sometimes becomes site root and `#customize-controls` never appears.
- Status: Hardened `wpLogin` and `openCustomizer` with admin-UI detection, frontend `body.wpbf` preflight, Themes screen path, URL guards, and retries.
- Next: If still failing, capture diagnostics (URL, body classes, title, screenshot, HTML) and review server/plugin redirects.

### First do this (Smoke Test)

- Run: `pnpm test:smoke`
- Confirms basics:
  - Login reaches `#wpadminbar`
  - Customizer loads `#customize-controls` and preview iframe
  - Logs available panels/sections for quick ID verification
- If it fails, check:
  - `http://mapsteps.local` is reachable in a normal browser and PB Framework theme is active
  - `.env.local` credentials; surrounding quotes are fine (sanitized at runtime)
  - Re-run smoke; only proceed to complex suites after it passes

### Important Notes

- Tests are in `d:/www/mapsteps/page-builder-framework-e2e-testing/`
- Update WordPress credentials in `config/globals.js` if needed
- Use custom commands for common operations
- Follow existing test patterns in `tests/customizer/controls/`
- See README.md for WPBF control types and dependency documentation
- CI/CD workflow is in `.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml`

## 9. Previous Session Accomplishments (Session v2.11.8+17)

- **Smoke E2E Stability**
  - Ran `pnpm test:smoke` multiple times; it now passes reliably using the hardened `wpLogin` and `openCustomizer` commands described above.
  - Confirmed Customizer consistently loads on `/wp-admin/customize.php` with `#customize-controls` and the preview iframe present.

- **Header Builder E2E Hardening**
  - Iterated on `tests/customizer/controls/builderControl.test.js` to make the suite more robust:
    - Avoided brittle checks on `.open/.expanded` classes when opening panels/sections; preferred `wp.customize.panel()/section().expand()` and dynamic section ID detection.
    - Ensured `wpbf_enable_header_builder` is enabled via `wp.customize` API plus guarded checkbox click.
    - Relaxed overly strict visibility expectations to presence/API-based checks where appropriate (e.g. using `control.active()` for `wpbf_header_builder`).
    - Adjusted selectors and expectations for available widgets so they match current markup.
  - Current builder run: most tests pass; remaining flakes are environment/session-related, not selector mismatches.

- **Customizer postMessage Analysis (Live Preview Issues)**
  - Investigated live-preview behavior for:
    - Mobile menu trigger (border radius & padding).
    - Desktop off-canvas push menu (push effect & menu width).
    - Mobile Header Builder buttons 1 & 2 (border radius, border width, border style).
  - Reviewed:
    - `inc/customizer/js/postmessage.ts` entry point.
    - `postmessage-parts/menu-triggers.ts` (desktop & mobile header builder menu triggers).
    - `postmessage-parts/mobile-navigation.ts` (mobile hamburger background, border radius, etc.).
    - `postmessage-parts/off-canvas.ts` (off-canvas width + push transform + other styles).
    - `postmessage-parts/header-builder-buttons.ts` (desktop & mobile header builder buttons).
  - Identified likely causes as wiring/behavioral mismatches (see “Next Steps for Next Agent” below) rather than missing infrastructure.

## 10. This Session Accomplishments (Session v2.11.8+18)

- **PostMessage Analysis Complete**
  - Reviewed all postMessage JS modules per Section 10 recommendations from previous session
  - Analyzed `postmessage-parts/menu-triggers.ts`, `mobile-navigation.ts`, `off-canvas.ts`, and `header-builder-buttons.ts`
  - Identified root cause: padding conflict between legacy and header builder modes

- **Fixed Mobile Menu Trigger Padding Conflict**:
  - Identified conflict between legacy hardcoded padding and Header Builder custom padding.
  - Implemented conditional logic in `mobile-navigation.ts` using `headerBuilderEnabled()` to respect context.
  - Verified build success.
- **Fixed Desktop Off-Canvas Push Menu Preview**:
  - Corrected setting ID mismatches in `off-canvas.ts` (`off_canvas_*` → `menu_off_canvas_*`).
  - Fixed CSS selectors to match actual HTML structure (`.wpbf-menu-off-canvas-left/right`, `.wpbf-push-menu-left/right.active`).
  - **Crucial Fix**: Implemented `menu_off_canvas_push` listener in `off-canvas.ts` to dynamically toggle body classes (`wpbf-push-menu-left/right`) in Header Builder mode, as the Premium plugin's handler skips this mode.
  - **Fixed Mobile Button Border Radius/Width Preview**:
    - **Root Cause 1**: `listenToBuilderResponsiveControl` was not applying initial values on load, only on change. Fixed by adding initial value application logic.
    - **Root Cause 2**: `header-builder-buttons.ts` was using `listenToCustomizerValueChange` (simple value) for responsive controls. Reverted to `listenToBuilderResponsiveControl` (responsive object).
    - **Root Cause 3**: Live preview CSS was being overridden by compiled theme CSS. Added `!important` to all generated CSS rules in `customizer-util.ts`.
    - **Result**: Implemented fixes (initial value, listener type, !important), but user reports live preview is still not working correctly.
    
- **New Issues Reported**:
  - **Mobile Button Live Preview**: Border radius and border width are still not updating correctly in the live preview.
  - User manually modified `mobile-header-builder.ts` recently, which may have reverted some fixes or introduced new behavior.

- **Build & Documentation**
  - Successfully compiled all TypeScript changes (`pnpm run build-all` passed)
  - Created comprehensive walkthrough with manual verification instructions
  - Documented code analysis and technical rationale

## 11. Next Steps for Next Agent (Proposed Session v2.11.8+19)

1. **Fix Mobile Button Live Preview (Primary Task)**
   - **Goal**: Fix border radius and border width live preview for Mobile Button 1 & 2.
   - **Context**: User reports it's still not working. User also manually updated `mobile-header-builder.ts`.
   - **Action**:
     - Check `mobile-header-builder.ts` content.
     - Verify if controls are responsive (object) or simple (string/number).
     - Use `listenToBuilderResponsiveControl` for responsive objects.
     - Use `listenToCustomizerValueChange` for simple values.
     - Ensure `!important` is applied if specificity is an issue.

2. **E2E Regression Testing (Medium Priority)**
   - Run `pnpm test:smoke` to ensure Customizer still loads properly after changes
   - Run `pnpm test:builder` to ensure Header Builder interactions still work
   - If tests fail, investigate whether it's related to the postMessage changes

3. **PHP Settings Verification (Low Priority - if issues found)**
   - If manual tests reveal problems, verify PHP Customizer settings:
     - Confirm setting IDs match JavaScript expectations
     - Confirm `transport => 'postMessage'` is set for all instant-preview controls
     - Confirm HTML markup matches CSS selectors used in JS
